# odd_elastic_wave
These codes and datasets have been used for the study to generate persistent noise-driven odd elastic waves in overdamped chiral active matter. This study can be found in arXiv: S.H. Choi, Z.-F. Huang, N. Goldenfeld. Noise-driven odd elastic waves in living chiral active matter, arXiv:2411.09615[cond-mat.soft] (2024) (DOI: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2411.09615)

**Code description**

**toymodel_noise_multirun.c** : simulation of the toy model of a spring network with both longitudinal and transverse interactions. This model is based on C. Scheibner, A. Souslov, D. Banerjee, P. Surowka, W.T.M. Irvine and V. Vitelli. Odd elasticity, _Nature Physics_ **16**, 475-480 (2020), but we added noise to the model.

**starfish_noise_multirun.c** : simulation of the starfish embryo model based on the work T.H. Tan, A. Mietke, J. Li, Y. Chen, H. Higinbotham, P.J. Foster, S. Gokhale, J. Dunkel and N. Fakhri. Odd dynamics of living chiral crystals, _Nature_ **607**, 287 (2022). We added noise to the model through the self-propulsion of the embryos.

**test_damping.ipynb** : analyze the data from both the toy model and the starfish embryo model in the absence of noise. 

**simulation_band_analysis_plots.ipynb** : analyze the data from both models with noise. 

**non-interacting_selfcircling_multirun.c** : simulation of non-interacting particles that circle around. This is to check the effect of self-circling motion to the dispersion result.

**non-interacting_self-circling_analysis.ipynb** : analyze the data from non-interacting self-circling particles.

**starfishmodel_wupdate_test.c** : simulation to test the effect of updating the self-spinning frequency.

**starfishmodel_wupdate_test.ipynb** : analyze the data generated by the above code.

**expt_data_analysis_traj.ipynb** : process the experimental data used in T.H. Tan, A. Mietke, J. Li, Y. Chen, H. Higinbotham, P.J. Foster, S. Gokhale, J. Dunkel and N. Fakhri. Odd dynamics of living chiral crystals, _Nature_ **607**, 287 (2022) for our analysis so that we only use the trajectories of the embryos that are long enough. For the original experimental data, please contact Prof. Tzer Han Tan (tztan@ucsd.edu) or Professor Nikta Fakhri (fakhri@mit.edu).

**expt_3dFFT.c** : generate Fourier-transformed current correlation functions from the data processed in the above code.

**expt_analysis_plots.ipynb** : analyze the current correlation functions from the processed experimental data.

**Data generated from simulation**

Data generated from simulation are in the folder "simulation_data". For the description of each dataset, please refer to the .md file in each folder.

**Experimental data**

For the experimental data, please contact Prof. Tzer Han Tan (tztan@ucsd.edu) or Professor Nikta Fakhri (fakhri@mit.edu). In the .md file in the folder "processed_expt_data", the description for how the data are processed is provided.
